# ind_code

This folder contains the R code and reproducible results of simulation studies for **independence test** in **Section 7.1** of the main paper and **Sections R.1--R.2** of the supplementary material.

 



---


## Main scripts
  
Running the scripts below requires sourcing the supporting functions in subfolder `ind_functions_dep/`. 
The corresponding reproducibility logs generated by the scripts are stored in subfolder  `ind_logs/`.



### `mex1.R`

Implements **Example 1** in Section 7.1 (main paper) and the related experiment in Section R.2 (supplementary material) with $n=50$, $p=q=100$, and $K \in \{0,p/20,p/10\}$.  
-- Reproducibility log: `ind_logs/ex1log.txt`.

 

### `mex2.R`
Implements **Example 2** in Section 7.1 (main paper) and the related experiment in Section R.2 (supplementary material) with $n=50$, $p=q=100$, and $K \in \{0,p/20,p/10\}$.  
-- Reproducibility log: `ind_logs/ex2log.txt`.

### `mex3.R`
Implements **Example 3** in Section 7.1 (main paper) and the related experiment in Section R.2 (supplementary material) with $n=50$, $p=q=100$, and $K \in \{0,p/20,p/10\}$.  
-- Reproducibility log: `ind_logs/ex3log.txt`.

### `mex4.R`
Implements **Example 4** in Section 7.1 (main paper) and the related experiment in Section R.2 (supplementary material) with $n=50$ and $p=q=100$, under the ‘null’ and ‘alternative’ settings.  
-- Reproducibility log: `ind_logs/ex4log.txt`.

 

### `mex5.R`
Implements **Example 5** in Section 7.1 (main paper) and the related experiment in Section R.2 (supplementary material) with $n=50$ and $p=q=100$, under the ‘null’ and ‘alternative’ settings.  
-- Reproducibility log: `ind_logs/ex5log.txt`.

### `nopower.R`: 
Implements the experiment in **Section R.1** of the supplementary material.    
-- Reproducibility log: `ind_logs/nopowerlog.txt`.
 

## Supporting functions

### `ind_functions_dep/`
This subfolder contains scripts that are sourced by the main scripts `mex1.R`–-`mex5.R` and `nopower.R`.  

- `PIND.R`   
R implementation of the proposed independence test (see Section 3 of the main paper). This script requires sourcing `cv_hat_max_arma.cpp`.
 

- `ind-functions.R`   
R implementations of the competing methods used in the simulation studies (see Section 7.1 of the main paper). 

 

## Reproducible results

### `ind_logs/` 

This subfolder stores reproducibility logs. The simulation results reported in the paper were obtained without setting random seeds. To ensure reproducibility, we provide replicable examples of running the proposed method and competing methods for the simulation studies. 